# Air-Pollution-monitoring-system
The key components of the Air Pollution Monitoring System are MQ135, Arduino board, OLED Display, LEDs, and buzzer. The MQ135 is one type of gas sensor that can sense NH3, NOx, alcohol, Benzene, smoke, CO2, and some other gases, these gases are harmful to human health. Arduino is the main microcontroller board of this system. The gas sensor continuously measures air quality and sends data to the Arduino board. Then Arduino prints air quality value on the OLED display in the PPM unit. The LEDs and Buzzer used as indicators, that indicates the air quality is in good, Poor, or dangerous zone.

When we turn on the system’s power supply, the MQ135 gas sensor starts sensing NH3, NOx, alcohol, Benzene, smoke, CO2, and some other harmful gases and it gives the output in form of voltage levels. This output voltage goes to the Arduino. Then the Arduino converts this voltage into PPM (parts per million) value with the help of the “MQ135.h” library which is defined in Arduino Code.  Then the PPM value will print on the OLED display.
When no harmful gases are present around the sensor, it will give us a value of 90 PPM.  Normally the safe level of air quality is 350 PPM and it should not exceed the quality level of 1000 PPM.  When the air quality level exceeds 1000 PPM, then it starts to cause Headaches, sleepiness, and stagnant, stale. When this level exceeds 2000 ppm, it can cause increased heart rate and many other diseases.
For this reason, this system/device has indicators. When the air quality level is less than 1000 ppm, it indicates by turn on the green LED and the “Fresh Air” message is print on the Display. When this value will exceed 1000 PPM, it means the air is polluted, then the system indicates it by turn on the Red LED, and the “Poor Air” message is print on the Display. If this value will exceed 2000 PPM, it means the air is highly polluted, then the system indicates it by turn on the Red LED and Buzzer, and the “Danger! Air” message is print on the Display.
